
            API (Application Programming Interface)
* What is API?
    API provides interaction between applications.
    API is an application without User Interface(UI).
    APIs specify how one software program should interact with other software programs.

* Assume an API as a Waiter at a Restaurant. As a waiter, the API takes a request from a client, takes that request to the
database, fetches the requested data from the database and returns a response to the client.

* Application/Client --> API Request --> Server/Data Source --> API Response

* What is API testing?
    API testing is done to check whether the API meets expectations in terms of functionality, reliability, performance,
    and security of an application.
    API testing doesn't concentrate on UI of the application.

*   User Interface(UI)                          API                                         Database
    - We can create data in the database.       - We can create data in the database.       - We can create data in the database.
    - We can check whether data is in the       - We can check whether data is in the       - We can check whether data is in the
    database or not as expected by using        database or not as expected by using        database or not as expected by using
    UI Search Functionality.                    API Request.                                SQL Select Queries.

* Every company creates their own APIs and earns money by selling the services

* What is the difference between API and Web Services?
    The only difference is that a Web Service creates interaction between two applications through the internet.
    Desktop applications such as Microsoft Word use their own APIs which don’t need internet.
    Note: All Web Services are APIs but all APIs are not Web Services.

* What is HTTP?
    HTTP stands for Hyper Text Transfer Protocol.
    Communication between client computers and web servers is done by sending HTTP Requests and receiving HTTP Responses.
    Clients are often browsers (Chrome, Edge, Safari), but they can be any type of program or device.
    Servers are most often computers in the cloud.

    Communication between clients and servers is done by requests and responses:
    1. A client (a browser) sends an HTTP Request to web
    2. A Web Server receives request
    3. The server runs an application to process request
    4. The server returns an HTTP Response (to browser)
    5. The client (the browser) receives the response

* What exactly needs to be verified in API Testing?
    On API Testing we send a request to the API with the known data, and we analyze the response.
        1) HTTP Status Codes
        2) Data Accuracy

* Common HTTP Status Codes
 1) 200 (OK) --> This is the standard response for successful HTTP requests.
 2) 201 (CREATED) --> This is the standard response for an HTTP request that resulted in an item being successfully created.
 3) 204 (NO CONTENT) This is the standard response for successful HTTP requests, where nothing is being returned in the response body.
 4) 400 (BAD REQUEST) The request cannot be processed because of bad request syntax, excessive size, or another client error.
 5) 403 (FORBIDDEN) The client does not have permission to access this resource.
 6) 404 (NOT FOUND) The resource could not be found at this time. It is possible it was deleted, or does not exist yet.
 7) 500 (INTERNAL SERVER ERROR) The generic answer for an unexpected failure if there is no more specific information available.

* Tools used for API testing?
    1. Postman is a popular API Tool that makes it easy for developers to create, share, test and document APIs.
    2. SOAP UI stands for Simple Object Access Protocol.
       - It is important for web applications to be able to communicate over the Internet.
       - The best way to communicate between applications is over HTTP, because HTTP is supported by all internet browsers and servers.
       - SOAP was created to accomplish this.
       - SOAP provides a way or format to communicate between applications running on different operating systems, with different technologies
       and programming languages.
       - SOAP is a platform independent.
       - SOAP is used XML Format.
    3. REST/RESTful/RestAssured
        - REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer.
        - REST is making easier for systems to communicate with each other.
        - In the REST architecture, clients send requests to retrieve or modify resources, and servers send responses to these requests.
        - REST is used XML and JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) Format; therefore, it is more common than SOAP.
    Note:
        XML Format
    <costumer>
        <costumer_id> 1001 </costumer_id>
        <costumer_name> John Doe </costumer_name>
    </costumer>

        JSON Format
    {
        "costumer_id": 1001
        "costumer_name": John Doe
    }

* What are the HTTP Methods?
    1. GET: This is used for fetching details from the server and is basically a read only operation. (Read)
    2. POST: This method is used for the creation of new resources on the server. (Create)
    3. PUT: This method is used to update the old/existing resource on the server or to replace the resource. (Update)
    4. DELETE: This method is used to delete the resource on the server. (Delete)
    5. PATCH: This is used for modifying the resource partially on the server.
    The POST, GET, PUT, DELETE corresponds to the create, read, update, delete operations which are most commonly called CRUD Operations.

* What does a REST request generally consist of?
    1. HTTP methods like Get, Post, Put, Delete, Patch
    2. Header: the client sends the type of content which will be received from the server.
    3. Path (Endpoint/URL) to resource
    4. Body

* What is an API Endpoint?
    The place that APIs send requests and where the resource lives, is called an endpoint.
    When API developers create an API, they create public Endpoints (URL) and decide which Endpoint will run with which HTTP Request Methods.
    Testers test every endpoint if they work as expected by using HTTP Request methods such as Get Post Put Delete.
